
-----STATS ,, BRACNCH TO COLLECT ANALYZE AND PRESENT INFO OR DATA ------------


TYPES are 2
1. descriptive 
just analyze and do all feature engineering withour predition 


2. interferential

make prediction upon population or sample data 



population is all poepple . e.g all poeple i  pka.. 
while sample is part of  popullation and is random an not biased 


1....measure of central tendency ....calculate central value of dataset

mean(sum of all /no of item) prone to outlier and not good
mode(most frequent value) good when outliers 
and median (middle value)

weighted mean . means using weights of numbers e.g 1+2+3/3 = mean  while  1*12+2*45+3*5/12+45+85 is weighted 
trimmed mean ,, removing smalles and largest value form dataset good woth dealing outliers

2...Measure oof dispersion  see how far data iis spread 
range max value - min ......but not good when outliers 
variance = (values - mean )^2/N measures how far is each point from mean tell us the spread but not good when outlier or prone to outlier 

standard deviation:  is square root of variance, most used because :
its unit is same as data  and tell us easily  

CVA coefficient of variance :  standard deviation / mean *100 

graphs for analysis.... 

1 categorical data .
1.frequency distribution table.tells number of times each vakue occurs in dataset we can do bar plot for thist oo 
2. relative frequency ... calculated percentage for above frequenct freuency can do pie chart for this 
3. commulatiive frequency adds frequency distribution for each entry one by one as we go down 

2 Numerical columns .
1.frequency distribution table create own categories called bins e.g for age we create bins 10-20 , 20-30.etc.and plot cretaed is called histogram 
 histogram plots are symmetric, bimodal,left skew,right skew no pattern and uniform 

graphs for bivariate analysis:
3 scenerios...
1.both colum are categorical:
contingency table crosstab table gives count respectively accordingly in table and rows row with table like survived  with pclass 
2 both are numerical then we use scatter plot 
3 categorical and numerical : can compare distribution ....by bar or any cross tab ,by dividing into bins   CRETE IT IN FOMRATO RO PASTE INTO 
