**HOW TO FIND GIVEN DISTRIBUTION IS NORMAL DIST OR NOT :


1 Visual inspection:
plot histogram or density plot.. we will observe bell shaped curve ,...

2 QQ plot. quantile quantile plot...

3 statistcal test :
e.g Sharpio wilk test , anderson darling test etc..
these compare observed data values to expected values of 
normal dist and give a p value
which tel how muxh likely is normal dist


QQ PLOT :
is graphical tool to assess similarity of the distribution of two set of data.It is
particularly useful when determining if set of data folloows normal dist...


x is random var
y is theoretical distribution (e.g nomal dist)
the calculate quantils for x axis and y 100 100 for both

then draw a diagonal line if points are on line that means x is of type y dist
scatter plot is used
can use statsmodel.api as sm library to calculate or draw qq plot
can detect any distribution


UNIFORM DISTRIBUTION:

where all outcomes are qually likely within a given range
means if we select a random value from this range any would be as likely as any other 
value
e.g coin tossing ,,prob of 1,2,3,4,5,6 is same

TYPES:
1. Discrete unifrom  for discrete random var
2. Continuous uniform for continous random  var 
pdf is constant density and is 1/b-a
*skewnwss is zero as its symmetric 

examples is machine learning
random initialization
sampling
data augmentation
hyperparamter tuning


LOG NORMAL DISTRIBUTION:
is heavy tailed continuous dist of random var whose logarith us normally distrubuted
means right tailed or skewd distributions which can become normal dist on log

examples
1 comments on social apps ..these are log normal dist
2 length of chess games 

this dist is skewed

how to check if random var is log normal dist..
we take log of x and then qq plot to see if its normal



PARETO DISTRUBITON:
that is commonly used to model the distribution
 of wealth , income of other quantities
that exhibit a similar power law behaviour

power law:
it is functional relationship between two vars,
 where one var is propottional to power 
of other.
e.g x and y
y= k*x^a
also 80-20 rule follows power law 
means that if it follows power law then 20% will have 80% od entire area under graph
or 20 will control 80 of area
ex..larger money is owned by 20% of people 
one parametre a or alpha
more alpha means more thin tail
if a is infinity then it has no tail a straight vertical line
curves are skewed
a = 1.6 we can say this dist follows 80-20 rule 
it is skewed
how to detect if dist is pareto:
1.log-log plot
calc log of x and y and plot graph and if it is donward linear line then it pareto dist
2.QQ plot



BERNOULI DISTRIBUTION:

discrete type dist and not on continuous
useful and along with others dist
is a probab dist that models a binary outcome where outcome can either be
success 1 or failure 0 
one parametre p,...
ex: coin toss...heads success 1, tail failure 0
e.g email spma detector .. can be either spam (success) or notspam (fialure)
or rolling a dice and getting 5 ...

useful more in binomial dist


BINOMIAL DISTRIBUTION:

bernouli is sopecial case of binomial 

is probab dist that describes the no of successes in fixed number of independent
bernouli trials with two outcomes 1 or 0 where probsba of succes 1 is constant for 
each trial 

in simple we perform bernuoli n times and see the probab result
2 parametres n(no of trials ) and p(probab of success)
e.g asking 10 students for course review yes or no 
but all should give independent answer e.g not talking with each other 
 can use equation to find its probab of event to occurr
by formula ....on wiki and notes   nCx p^x(1-p)^n-x
n = no of trial , p = probab of succes , x = desired result

criteria:
more than 1 trial
only 2 outcomes are possible ,0 or 1
proobab should be fixes in each run
trails should be independent

UESECASE IN DATA SCIENCE:
binary classicification problem..
hypothesis testing
