ALgerbra VARIABLEs 
are unknown values e.g of x +6 =1,..
denoted by small letter  x y z 


RANDOM VARIABLES
is set of possible values form a random experiment 
e.g coin toss or dice roll answers is random 
denoted by capital letters XYZ



types :
1. Discrete random var

e.g coin toss or dice roller values are discrete 2,3,4,5, not .5 .66 or etc


2. Continous random var

e.g CGPA of students van be 2 but also 5.6 etc
range based 



PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTIONS:
is list of all possible outcomes of a random variable along with their corresponding probabliliy values 

is kind of table one row is possibilities and second is probability
e.g coin toss has 2 possibility  head 1 or tail 0
	and has prob for each as 50% 
this is probab distrubution

problem is that for mor no of outcomes we will get tediious table and difficult to undestand

solution is : we use a mathematical function to model relationship b\w outcome and probab


y = f(x) gives y probability value for each x outcome 
also called
probability distribution function: PDF..(mathematical relation between both )

graph types for pdf

random discrete var  dotted on graph
continous random var straight line without any breaksor gaps in ine for graph 


famous one are 
normal distribution 
uniform
beta 
bernouli 
poisson chi-square
pareto  
weibul

why is probab dist important ?
1 gives idea about shape of data and its spread 
2 idea of famous distribution above ,we automattically know about it a lot


a note or parametres ....
are numerical values that determine shape location and scale of distribution in probab distribution


probab distribution have parametres that  are different for every probab distribution


PDF (probability distribution function):
math func that describes the probab of obtaining different values of random var 
in a particular probability distribution

TYPES 
1. probability mass func (PMF)

if we are plotting probability dist func for a discrete random var will use PMF

2. probability  density func(PDF too but can use as we like )

if we are plotting probability dist func for a continous random var will use PDF

3. CDF cummulative distribution func:
formed using combining pmf and pdf 


1. PMF probability mass func:
gives probab dist of discrete random var 
when assigining probab to to each random var it must meet 2 conditions 
1. assigned probab shoulld be non negative 
2. sum of all probab ==1 

ex for dice roller 
y =f(x) so equation is Y = {1/6 if x belong to 1,2,3,4,5,6
			     0 otherwise}


2. CDF cummulative distribution func:
describes the probab that a random var X with a given probab distrib will be found at a 
values less than or greater than equal to x
in cdf we say that for x =5 or etc tilll that point and lesse than that the probab..
from pmf...
e.g in pmf we found   what was f(x=1,2,3,4,5,6) in dice 
but in cdf we do f(x<4) = f(x=4)+f(x=3)+f(x=2)+f(x=1) == 1/6+ 1/6+ 1/6+ 1/6
can be found from both pdf and pmf


pmf give probab of a point ..while cdf gives probab up till that point


3. PDF probab density func :
it is done for continous random var

main diference with PMF is that in CDF
X axis is values random but on Y axis we have probab density instead of probab
hence in pmf x axi s= value and y axis = probab

why probab density instead of probab?:
we cant use probab because in continuous data there are infinite points so for 
each point we would get prob to be near to zero'
ex that cgpa from 0 to 10 might be 3.4677 or4.5566 its impossible to haave probab

so we use probab density
what is area of the graph of pdf?:
is gives probab from 0 to 10 of each boys marks that is 1 ...
total area under the curve of a PDF is always 1.

probab density :
gives probab between two numbers ... like between 8 to 9 
will use integration 
 probab is calculated through area under the graph....
Let’s say the PDF at X = 5 is 0.6 — what does that mean?

It means the density of probability around 5 is 0.6

If you want actual probability, you need to take an interval (like 4.9 to 5.1), then calculate the area under the curve.

