QUANTILES AND PERCENTILES:

quantiles top level word...are statistical measures to divide set of numerical data intoequal sized group or buckets 
used to understand distribuytion of data and used to find outliers 
types :
quartiles divide data to 4 parts  
decile to divide data to 10 parts 
percentiles are divide data to 100 equal parts 
quintiles divide to 5 parts

data should be sorted ,
they are not actual values in data
can derive all tiles byy percentiles 

PERCENTILE : represent percentage of observations in data set that fall below value 
e.g 99 percentile means  99 people behind and 1 are ahead
formula pl(percentile location in dataset ) =  P/100 (N+1)  p = percentile rank N = no of observation in data 
formula percentile rank = x + 0.5y /n    x = value below given value,y = no of value equal to given value n = no of obs

5 NUMBER SUMMARY :
is descriptive stat provides summary of dataset.consist of 5 values taht divide dataset in 4 parts 
1 minnimun value
2. first quartile Q1 25 lowest
3. Median Q2 50 %
4. third quartile  Q3 75 %
5. max vlaue 

represented using box plot  very useful 

IQR INTERQUARTILE RANGE:

based on above 5 system from Q1 to Q3 .... 

BOX PLOT 
also called box and whissker plot shows distribution of data 

min = Q1 -1.5(IQR)	.....IQR = Q3 - Q1.....
max = Q3 + 1.5(IQR)

SCATTER PLOT 
done when both colum are numerical 

COVARIANCE:
 is stat measure which describes how much two variables are linearky related. tel
if one var increases wiht other or reverse or 
+ve when x is increasing and also y
-ve when x i increasing but y is declining 
if x is increasing but no hange in y so its covariance is 0 or near to 0

disadvantage : it does not tell strenght of relationship between 2 variable ....
because scale changes and it affects the result 

covariance of variable with itself will give us simple variance 

CORRELATION: 
it solves the problem of covariance and tells how two variables are related with strength and upto which degree
e.g strong positive correlation ,weak positive corr ,strong negative corr,weak negative corr,moderate neg corr,no corr
by scatter plot
measured by correlation coefficient ranging from -1 to 1 .
......corr doesnot imply causation.... 
means if if corr that doesnot mean it is also causation
one variable is not  reason for others behavior
means more fire is more firefighter but not good that more fire is due to more fighters
for multivariate analysis : 
3d scatter plot 
using hue parametre
facetgrids
jointplots
pair plos
bubble chart
